Come to informatics one.
NOTE CONF
Cognitive science.
We'll start in a few minutes while we start.
NOTE CONF
Now, actually.
And before we get started, could you please scan the
NOTE CONF
QR code?
This will take you to a club page.
NOTE CONF
And we're going to use book club for this lecture
and also subsequent lectures as a way of interacting with
NOTE CONF
what is quite a large class.
So it's a good way to participate.
NOTE CONF
And so hopefully this will work.
Let's see.
NOTE CONF
We have 51 people already.
I just wait a little bit give people the opportunity
NOTE CONF
to sign up.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
I think that's.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So.
I mean.
NOTE CONF
Okay, maybe let's get started.
At this point.
NOTE CONF
I'll show the QR code again later on when we
actually need it.
NOTE CONF
Let's switch to the slides.
So welcome to Informatics one cognitive science.
NOTE CONF
Uh, this is, uh, a from scratch introduction to cognitive
science with a computational computational slant.
NOTE CONF
So it's obviously taught by folks in informatics.
And there is a focus on computational methods and computational
NOTE CONF
modelling.
But we also introduce all the cognitive material that you
NOTE CONF
need to do that.
You need to know to do that modelling.
NOTE CONF
I'll quickly explain what we mean by cognitive science and
give an overview of the course.
NOTE CONF
Then I'll talk about the organisation.
How do the assignments work.
NOTE CONF
How do the quizzes function and so on.
And then there will be a quick preview of next
NOTE CONF
time pizza problems.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So you have already scanned this.
If not you can scan it now.
NOTE CONF
And then we have two quick questions for you.
So anyone still need to scan the QR code.
NOTE CONF
Show people.
Okay so now let's switch.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Let's wait till we have 110.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so now this will just be a quick survey.
This is really for me and Matthias to find out,
NOTE CONF
um, what kind of background you have and what kind
of expectations you have for the course.
NOTE CONF
So here you can vote.
Um, what degree are you enrolled in cognitive science?
NOTE CONF
Uh, one of the various informatics degrees psych, philosophy, linguistics,
and so on.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Let's see.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
We have a lot of informatics people, around 50%.
NOTE CONF
And then the remaining 50% are distributed across cognitive science,
Mathematics and others seem to be the strongest, um, the
NOTE CONF
strongest subjects.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Then which year are you in?
NOTE CONF
Um, it's really just a course for first and second
year students.
NOTE CONF
Most students are first year.
But just to find out.
NOTE CONF
Oh, sorry.
That was the wrong button.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Some second year, some visiting students.
NOTE CONF
85%.
First years.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this was mostly for testing work lab, but
also to, uh, to find out a little bit about
NOTE CONF
you guys.
Okay, this is the team, of course, lectures.
NOTE CONF
So there's materials handling here, and myself and I have
a mic.
NOTE CONF
If I can get it to work.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So I'll start.
Hi.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I'm Matthias Hennig.
I'm, um.
NOTE CONF
I'm doing research in computational neuroscience.
So we are, uh, constructing models of brain function, and
NOTE CONF
we're also analysing neural data.
And I'll be teaching the second half of this course,
NOTE CONF
which is more leaning towards neuroscience.
So we'll be exploring, um, how the brain works and
NOTE CONF
what that means for computer science from a neuroscientific perspective.
So for instance, I'm going to teach you how we
NOTE CONF
see things, how vision works.
We're going to see how, um, activity in the brain
NOTE CONF
of neurones relates to artificial neural networks and whether these
are different or similar.
NOTE CONF
And some of these are interesting questions which range all
the way into philosophy.
NOTE CONF
So there's a lot to discuss there.
And yeah, I'm looking forward to seeing you in.
NOTE CONF
After the flexible learning week or how was it called?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
When?
I'll be starting my part.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
I'll introduce myself as well.
NOTE CONF
Quickly.
So I'm Frank.
NOTE CONF
I'll do the non-euro part of the course.
That part deals with high level cognitive function, in particular
NOTE CONF
with language, but also with things like decision making or
categories and concepts.
NOTE CONF
And I'll introduce some of the computational techniques.
Starting actually with neural networks, but also things like Bayesian
NOTE CONF
modelling that Mathias will also then pick up in his
half of the course.
NOTE CONF
There's also two teaching assistants, Robin Green and Jordan Schwartz,
who are not here, but who do a lot of
NOTE CONF
the work behind the scenes.
In particular to do with the labs and and the
NOTE CONF
assignment.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let's start with what is cognitive science?
So you might have seen this hexagon before.
NOTE CONF
It's supposed to illustrate the different component disciplines.
Things like philosophy and psychology contribute to cognitive science, but
NOTE CONF
also AI, neuroscience, anthropology and linguistics.
And they all interact in mysterious ways.
NOTE CONF
So that's why there's all these connecting lines.
In this course, we can't cover all of this, and
NOTE CONF
we can't cover all possible subject areas and all possible
cognitive functions.
NOTE CONF
We will focus mostly on this part here.
Well, some linguistics as well, and a little bit of
NOTE CONF
anthropology.
Not a lot of philosophy, but the methods are often
NOTE CONF
shared with AI and with neuroscience in particular.
Matthias part and the experimental aspects that we'll touch upon
NOTE CONF
are mostly from cognitive psychology.
Personally, I think it's better to think in terms of
NOTE CONF
cognitive functions rather than in terms of disciplines.
So the cognitive functions we're going to deal with are
NOTE CONF
vision, language, memory, decision making, these kind of things.
And then all the different disciplines, they have aspects to
NOTE CONF
contribute.
For example linguistics obviously if you study language then linguistics
NOTE CONF
has a lot to contribute.
If you want to model cognitive functions, and AI is
NOTE CONF
useful because of all the machine learning techniques and so
on.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So as a discipline, you can define cognitive science as
NOTE CONF
the science of mental representation and processes.
So representation a representation is a description of information in
NOTE CONF
the mind in your brain ultimately in biology.
And the process is something that goes on in the
NOTE CONF
brain that works with that information without representation.
For example, sensory information comes in.
NOTE CONF
It could be auditory information or visual information.
And you translate it into some sort of representation.
NOTE CONF
Ultimately an activation.
Patterns of neurones.
NOTE CONF
And then this representation underpins behaviour in some sense.
So for example.
NOTE CONF
You see something and then you speak for example you
describe what you've seen.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So there's an action.
NOTE CONF
There's motor control.
There's an output that's being generated by the cognitive system.
NOTE CONF
And we basically have sensory information being translated to representations
or the other way around.
NOTE CONF
And sometimes we have internal representation for example verbal representations
being translated to numerical representations stuff like this.
NOTE CONF
So it's all about representations and the processes that operate
on them.
NOTE CONF
And in this course we're going to look at cognitive
science from various angles.
NOTE CONF
So we will see what kind of questions cognitive scientists
normally ask about representations and cognitive processes what kind of
NOTE CONF
data they collect.
And this can go from behavioural data, brain imaging data,
NOTE CONF
neuroscientific data, questionnaires, um, data for models where you generate
simulations and use those simulations as data, what kind of
NOTE CONF
theories they build.
And these can be verbal theories, but they can also
NOTE CONF
be mathematical or numerical.
And then ultimately computational models, algorithms and implementations of algorithms
NOTE CONF
that simulate cognitive processes.
So we'll encounter all of this in the course.
NOTE CONF
And as I said there is an emphasis on computational
modelling.
NOTE CONF
We'll talk about that a lot more on Thursday.
Why computational modelling.
NOTE CONF
Why is it not enough to just measure things and
gather data?
NOTE CONF
I will argue that you can use modelling to evaluate
theories, to generate new hypotheses, and ultimately guide the collection
NOTE CONF
of new data.
So your model predicts something, and then you can gather
NOTE CONF
new data to to test that prediction.
This will all become a lot less abstract and more
NOTE CONF
concrete, with lots of examples starting on Thursday.
Okay, but let's look at a few examples.
NOTE CONF
And here again there's a show of hands.
Well woo club contribution.
NOTE CONF
So I have three questions for you.
So first of all does the brain get physically bigger
NOTE CONF
when we learn something new.
Could we still deal with quantities if we didn't have
NOTE CONF
any numbers.
Let's assume we're in a culture where there is no
NOTE CONF
words for numbers.
And finally, can computers learn anything that we learn that
NOTE CONF
humans can learn?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And I would like you to vote.
These are all questions we'll encounter in the course.
NOTE CONF
So I'd like you to vote on these questions.
And hold on.
NOTE CONF
Where is my old club?
Okay, so first one, does our brain get physically bigger
NOTE CONF
when we learn something new?
And lots of people have already voted, so let's see.
NOTE CONF
Most people say no.
Well, there's actually evidence that it does get bigger.
NOTE CONF
In particular, there's a study we'll look at in the
second part of the course where researchers have looked at
NOTE CONF
the hippocampus.
Hippocampus is a part of the brain that is involved
NOTE CONF
in navigation.
And they found that this is bigger in people who
NOTE CONF
are trained in navigation.
Namely taxi drivers who, you know, navigate for a living
NOTE CONF
and who are trained to basically know the map of
a city very well.
NOTE CONF
And the hippocampus is actually physically bigger than in non
taxi drivers.
NOTE CONF
So that is an interesting fact.
Next question.
NOTE CONF
So let's assume we're in a culture where we don't
have words for numbers.
NOTE CONF
Can we still deal with quantities.
What do you think.
NOTE CONF
Well.
Oh, sorry.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Almost everyone is convinced that that's the case.
NOTE CONF
And that's the correct answer.
And again, we'll look at this in more detail.
NOTE CONF
Uh, in.
I.
NOTE CONF
Think end of towards the end of next week, uh,
where we'll, uh, look at people in a culture called,
NOTE CONF
uh.
Well, uh, Piranha and the speakers and the members of
NOTE CONF
this culture, they speak a language that doesn't have a
number of words, but you can run experiments that show
NOTE CONF
that they're still able to count in the sense that
they're able to deal with quantities that can match quantities,
NOTE CONF
same quantities on each other.
And so this can be shown experimentally and is a
NOTE CONF
cognitive development that they go through, just like children in
other cultures.
NOTE CONF
They learn this counting procedure even though they don't have
number words.
NOTE CONF
So that's an interesting anthropological fact.
And then final questions.
NOTE CONF
So a lot of hype at the moment about AI
around large language models and agents.
NOTE CONF
And they might take over the world and so on.
So.
NOTE CONF
Surely they can learn anything.
We can learn.
NOTE CONF
What do you think?
Just need a big enough neural network.
NOTE CONF
Oh, sorry.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So opinion is divided.
There isn't a clear answer.
NOTE CONF
Maybe.
Not surprising.
NOTE CONF
Um, I have In the slides, there's a reference to
a paper where they essentially argue that the answer ultimately
NOTE CONF
is yet is yes, if we have enough data and
enough compute.
NOTE CONF
But yeah, there's no clear answer for that yet.
And let's go back to my slides.
NOTE CONF
So these are the answers.
Just to summarise, the taxi drivers.
NOTE CONF
Yes, they're hippocampi the areas at the at the stem
of the brain.
NOTE CONF
They grow when they learn how to navigate.
Uh, Piraha.
NOTE CONF
Uh, a tribe in the Amazon have no expressions for
numbers, but they can do number matching tasks from a
NOTE CONF
certain age, right?
So they need to learn this as children and, uh
NOTE CONF
oh, already tomorrow I'm talking about this.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
Thursday.
And, uh, yeah.
NOTE CONF
No clear answer for question three.
Maybe.
NOTE CONF
Here are some references if you want to know more
about these these questions.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Now let's go back to the course.
NOTE CONF
So we talked a bit about cognitive science to discipline.
Now let's talk about this course a little bit.
NOTE CONF
And we were.
We were here.
NOTE CONF
So there's no correct answer.
But if you could tell me in a word or
NOTE CONF
two, what do you find most exciting about the course?
What are you looking forward to most?
NOTE CONF
So I'll actually switch on the word cloud.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Neuroscience is winning Python.
Python is good.
NOTE CONF
I'll say a little bit about Python.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Thank you very much.
Uh, I promise you, the first part of the course
NOTE CONF
that doesn't have a lot of neuroscience in it is
also fun, but obviously you're more interested in the second
NOTE CONF
part, which is this part.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
What are some other interesting things?
Consciousness.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
There won't be a lot about consciousness.
NOTE CONF
I'm really sorry.
Reading research papers.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
You definitely get the opportunity.
NOTE CONF
Interdisciplinary.
It will be very interdisciplinary.
NOTE CONF
There will be some programming of cognitive models.
Some linguistics.
NOTE CONF
Excellent.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Next question.
Um, what are you most worried about in terms of
NOTE CONF
this course?
Anything that could be problematic that you're scared of?
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Coding looms large workload at the exam.
I'll say a little bit about the exam.
NOTE CONF
Essay writing.
There's no essay writing.
NOTE CONF
You'll be glad to learn.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Big brain, this happens sometimes with these word clouds that
some some words go viral.
NOTE CONF
Okay, cool.
And, yeah, too much philosophy.
NOTE CONF
No.
Neither Matthias or I are a philosopher, so there won't
NOTE CONF
be a lot of philosophy.
Let's see, what else is there?
NOTE CONF
Memorisation.
Being bored.
NOTE CONF
You are not going to be bored.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Moving on.
So this course, as I've already said, is a bit
NOTE CONF
computational.
It's not, you know, it's gentle in terms of the
NOTE CONF
computational content.
And I'll talk about that in a moment.
NOTE CONF
But it would be useful to know.
Have you ever used Python before?
NOTE CONF
You can say lots a fair amount a bit, never.
Keep pressing the wrong button.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, most of you have had some exposure to Python.
NOTE CONF
This is great to make things a bit easier.
But we'll also provide lots of support for those who
NOTE CONF
have not used Python or maybe not done any programming
before.
NOTE CONF
This is actually the next question.
Do you have experience with any other programming languages?
NOTE CONF
Haskell, for example?
I wouldn't I don't know why anyone would, but Haskell
NOTE CONF
seems to be popular around here.
Any other Experiences?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Fantastic.
Just Python.
NOTE CONF
No programming at all.
5%.
NOTE CONF
Excellent.
And how about maths?
NOTE CONF
So there won't be huge amounts of maths in this
course, but some.
NOTE CONF
Well, let's say high school level maths is there.
So have you done higher or A-level maths.
NOTE CONF
Maybe even some maths courses at university.
Or maybe not so keen on maths.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So most people have seen some math before so that's
NOTE CONF
going to be useful.
As I said it's not going to be super complicated.
NOTE CONF
And that was it in terms of questions.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Now I'll tell you a little bit more about the
course and about the content, but also about how the
NOTE CONF
course will be run.
As I said, it's an introduction to cognitive science.
NOTE CONF
Starting from scratch has a computational focus.
And why does it say three main parts, two main
NOTE CONF
parts?
So the first part is the one before Flexible Learning
NOTE CONF
week.
We're going to talk about language categories which are sort
NOTE CONF
of semantic objects related to language and decision making.
So for example, if people have to decide between various
NOTE CONF
options and they know about the probability of these options,
how do they make a decision under uncertainty.
NOTE CONF
So we'll talk about that as well, which is not
sort of a language thing.
NOTE CONF
And then in Mathias part after FLW it's going to
be about memory vision and neural computation.
NOTE CONF
We'll introduce some of the important problems and questions in
the field.
NOTE CONF
Give an overview of the data and also the theories
if you Had prior experience to cognitive exposure to cognitive
NOTE CONF
science, for example, in the introduction to cognitive science, which
is the first semester course, or in psychology one day,
NOTE CONF
then you will recognise some of these things.
But we are offering the the more modelling and theory
NOTE CONF
oriented computational perspective.
And you will also learn how to design, implement and
NOTE CONF
test cognitive models in the assignment in particular and in
the labs.
NOTE CONF
So these are the practical parts of the of the
course.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So let me briefly try to convince you why modelling
NOTE CONF
is a good thing and what kind of models you
will encounter.
NOTE CONF
So sometimes people use model and theory interchangeably.
They will talk about, I don't know, a model of
NOTE CONF
sensory perception or a model of eye movements.
And what they actually mean is a theory, a precise
NOTE CONF
theory that's either written down in mathematical terms or in
verbal terms, but is precise enough to make testable predictions.
NOTE CONF
This is not what we're going to mean by model.
When we say model, we mean something that's actually implemented.
NOTE CONF
There's an algorithm.
There's an implementation.
NOTE CONF
It's something you can run.
It's simulates the behaviour.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't just describe it, albeit uh, some theories are
very precise and mathematical, but they don't simulate the behaviour.
NOTE CONF
And models can have physical, mathematical and computational aspects to
it.
NOTE CONF
We'll deal with the computational aspects.
So um, I don't know.
NOTE CONF
This is a robot for example is a type of
model, is a physical model that implements certain interactive behaviour.
NOTE CONF
The robot, of course, needs to interact with its environment.
Uh, this is one of these mathematical models.
NOTE CONF
This is illustrating Stephen's law, uh, which tells you how
the perceived magnitude of the stimulus Um, relates to the
NOTE CONF
physical magnitude.
So you have the the perceived magnitude, the magnitude estimate
NOTE CONF
here on the y axis and the stimulus magnitude, the
physical intensity on the y axis and depending on the
NOTE CONF
modality.
So for example, if you just ask participants to estimate
NOTE CONF
the length of a line, then the actual length and
the perceived length, they are linearly related.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we have a straight line coefficient of one.
NOTE CONF
But other things like for example estimating the brightness of
a light flash, uh, people systematically overestimate the brightness.
NOTE CONF
So the coefficient is smaller than one or an electric
shock.
NOTE CONF
Um, you underestimate the strength.
And so the intensity the coefficient is, uh, more than
NOTE CONF
one.
So this tells us basically that there's a clear mathematical
NOTE CONF
relationship which you can actually write as this simple exponential
equation here where k is the constant.
NOTE CONF
P is the perceived magnitude and s is the intensity.
And then there's a modality specific exponent n.
NOTE CONF
So that would be one for line length smaller than
one for brightness and bigger than one for electric shock.
NOTE CONF
And this is a type of model.
And you can easily imagine how to implement this and
NOTE CONF
simulate the behaviour.
But in this, at this form, in this form it's
NOTE CONF
just an equation.
So it can be an artefact like a robot can
NOTE CONF
be a mathematical equation like Stephen's Law.
It can be something like this.
NOTE CONF
This is the um, the model of eye movement behaviour
called easy Reader, which takes visual input here and then
NOTE CONF
decides, um, whether to make a saccade, whether to move
to the next word.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So this is for reading.
NOTE CONF
Um, and it controls the eye movements in reading and
reading.
NOTE CONF
You move from word to word in little jumps.
Basically, these are called saccades.
NOTE CONF
And it tells you here in the motor control part,
whether to make a saccade and jump to the next
NOTE CONF
word, or whether to process the next word.
So pay attention to the next word, or go to
NOTE CONF
the word after whether to initiate an attention shift and
so on.
NOTE CONF
So this is sometimes called a box and arrow model.
You don't need to understand the details, but you need
NOTE CONF
to understand that if people say model they sometimes mean
something like this.
NOTE CONF
So in this case there is actually a computational implementation
as well of easy reader of the eye movement control
NOTE CONF
model, which you can run and which will produce a
sequence of fixations and saccades on the page as you
NOTE CONF
read write, which you can then compare to human to
human behaviour.
NOTE CONF
But the diagram here is this is a model just
as a sequence of boxes and arrows.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so these are three different types of models that
we encounter.
NOTE CONF
Then there's models like this.
There's a neural network of course.
NOTE CONF
And you have an input layer a hidden layer, an
output layer.
NOTE CONF
And basically you have a vector of data that you
transform into another vector of outputs.
NOTE CONF
And there is no theory in the same sense as
there's a theory that's encapsulated here in the, in the
NOTE CONF
boxes in error or in the mathematical formulation like here.
But it's really just a mechanism, right?
NOTE CONF
It's an architecture, a mechanism that transforms transforms an input
into an output.
NOTE CONF
So this is also something that people call a model
and we'll encounter in the course.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
In terms of the material that we'll see in the
NOTE CONF
first part of the course, we'll start with an introduction
to language, some facts about words and sentences that you
NOTE CONF
need to know.
Then we'll talk about language acquisition.
NOTE CONF
How do children learn language?
We'll introduce a neural network model of a particular part
NOTE CONF
of language acquisition in particular past tense.
It's a model of past tense acquisition.
NOTE CONF
Then we talk about speech a little bit in particular
works.
NOTE CONF
Word segmentation introduce another modelling paradigm and apply that to
speech segmentation.
NOTE CONF
It's called Bayesian modelling.
It's a form of probabilistic modelling.
NOTE CONF
We'll talk about word learning.
We'll also look at a Bayesian model there.
NOTE CONF
We'll introduce another concept.
Communication efficiency which stems from information theory which is a
NOTE CONF
part of computer science, which has also been used as
a tool for modelling cognitive processes.
NOTE CONF
We'll talk about semantics, the meaning of words.
In particular, I'll introduce something called vector semantics or word
NOTE CONF
embeddings.
These are essentially derived from neural networks as well.
NOTE CONF
So this goes back to the to the earlier part
of the course here.
NOTE CONF
And then we'll talk about categories and decision making and
biases in decision making in particular.
NOTE CONF
And also about how to model these computationally.
We'll go back to actually the Bayesian modelling paradigm here.
NOTE CONF
So as you can see it's a mixture of topics,
in this case mostly in the realm of language and
NOTE CONF
modelling paradigms.
Right.
NOTE CONF
In the literature there's a bunch of different modelling paradigms
and they're suitable in different situations.
NOTE CONF
And this is something you hopefully will get out of
the course that there's an array of tools, and you'll
NOTE CONF
learn how to how to use these tools and when
they are applicable, then in Mathias part, it's more about
NOTE CONF
the neural foundations of cognition, particularly talking about memory, vision,
and neural computation.
NOTE CONF
Starting a little bit with brain anatomy and brain function,
talking about individual neurones, how you would model at that
NOTE CONF
level.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So there's different modelling paradigms that are appropriate at the
neural level.
NOTE CONF
How you record data, how you record neural activity.
This is quite different from when you're studying language.
NOTE CONF
And you can, uh, you know, get people to produce
sentences.
NOTE CONF
And this is your data here.
You can record from the brain or you can use
NOTE CONF
brain imaging.
Um, he will talk quite a lot about vision and
NOTE CONF
the relationship between vision and memory, uh, looking at various
modelling paradigms again, for example, hope filled networks.
NOTE CONF
So this is also called auto associative memory.
It's a paradigm that in particular is used to model
NOTE CONF
visual memory and reinforcement learning, which is another modelling paradigm
will also be be touched upon.
NOTE CONF
And, uh, let's talk a little bit about how the
course is run.
NOTE CONF
So this course is suitable for outside students.
And most of you are at least half of you
NOTE CONF
are not Informatics students.
There will be some programming in Python, in the assignments
NOTE CONF
and in the labs.
Um, if you've taken the introduction to cognitive science, you
NOTE CONF
will have had some programming exposure informatics one day as
well.
NOTE CONF
Some maths.
But as I said, don't be.
NOTE CONF
Don't be scared.
The maths will not be very difficult.
NOTE CONF
Um, the labs are there to provide help with programming.
In fact, we'll start with labs next week and it
NOTE CONF
will be a gentle introduction.
You'll learn how to use notable, which is the programming
NOTE CONF
environment we'll use.
You will be introduced to NumPy and, um, simple Python
NOTE CONF
libraries and concepts that will be useful for the assignments
and for the, for the labs in subsequent weeks.
NOTE CONF
Um, there's also if you need help, if you're an
informatics student, then you will have seen enough space.
NOTE CONF
So there is an INF based tutor for this course
as well.
NOTE CONF
So if you have questions about the course, about the
assignments, about the labs and so on, I will post
NOTE CONF
once the INF based sessions start.
They probably don't start until week 2 or 3.
NOTE CONF
So these are drop in sessions where you can ask
for help.
NOTE CONF
And there's INF pals.
This is run by the Student Union, is a peer
NOTE CONF
assisted learning scheme which also covers this course.
Uh, yes.
NOTE CONF
So we have already done this cool.
Um lectures.
NOTE CONF
Obviously there's going to be three lectures each week.
Uh, they'll all be in person.
NOTE CONF
We are recording all the lectures, too.
Um, they're also live streamed.
NOTE CONF
So if you.
I'm not going to say if you can't get out
NOTE CONF
of bed because it's 3:00, but if you're not able
to come in on campus, Then you can you can
NOTE CONF
watch the live stream.
Um, I'll try to keep a weekly schedule.
NOTE CONF
So by that, I mean on Friday we'll release all
the material for the next week.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So you can you can look at it on Friday,
NOTE CONF
maybe start looking at a few things over the weekend
and on Monday and then on Tuesday is the first
NOTE CONF
lecture.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And this this dump of material will include the lecture
slides, the tutorial, the lab.
NOTE CONF
But it will also include sort of a list of
tasks.
NOTE CONF
So reminding you there's a deadline this week or you
expect it to look at the following reading and so
NOTE CONF
on.
So there's a small web page for each each week.
NOTE CONF
And that has a list of tasks and a set
of material that you need for that week.
NOTE CONF
And that will appear each Friday.
Um, and it's basically to help you manage your time,
NOTE CONF
schedule your time, and also to encourage you to do
preparation ahead of time because you're going to benefit more
NOTE CONF
from the lectures.
And yeah.
NOTE CONF
Keeping up with the lectures in general is a good
idea because binge watching 30 lectures, that's.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, that's really hard to do.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
In addition to lectures there's tutorials.
Tutorials are small group sessions.
NOTE CONF
These are between 12 and 15 students.
They're led by a colleague or by a PhD student.
NOTE CONF
And they cover the material from the lectures.
So there's one tutorial each week.
NOTE CONF
These are more theoretical and mathematical exercises.
You'll get a question sheet ahead of time.
NOTE CONF
Please look at these questions.
Attempt to to answer the questions.
NOTE CONF
And then the tutorials are there to answer any questions
that you have, any things that are unclear, but also
NOTE CONF
to go through your answers and give you feedback.
And the tutorials are meant to be as interactive as
NOTE CONF
possible and they work best if you prepare ahead of
time.
NOTE CONF
In general, there are good preparation for the exam because
the tutorial questions are quite similar to the exam question
NOTE CONF
to what the exam questions will be.
Question sheets.
NOTE CONF
So for next week's tutorial, the question sheet is already
out.
NOTE CONF
If you want to have a look, the tutorials start
next week.
NOTE CONF
You hopefully were all auto enrolled in a tutorial group.
If you haven't been, or if you're in the wrong
NOTE CONF
group, you can go in my ID and change the
enrolment.
NOTE CONF
Sometimes there might be a clash with another course.
We have 12 tutorial groups, so hopefully you can find
NOTE CONF
one that that suits you.
Okay, then there's the labs.
NOTE CONF
The labs are practical sessions.
They happen in the in the computing rooms in Apple
NOTE CONF
Tower.
And these are drop in sessions.
NOTE CONF
So you haven't been assigned to a group.
There's however five lab sessions.
NOTE CONF
So you can just choose one of them that suits
you and just drop.
NOTE CONF
In the two hours, there's going to be two demonstrators
per session, and you're supposed to work through the the
NOTE CONF
lab exercises, which come in the form of a Python
notebook.
NOTE CONF
And as I said, we'll start very gently with some
programming, some numpy, numpy, and so on.
NOTE CONF
And but the demonstrators are there to help you to,
to guide you, to answer any questions you have and
NOTE CONF
so on.
This will build up relevant background for the assignment.
NOTE CONF
The assignment will be issued towards the end of week
five.
NOTE CONF
If I remember correctly.
And then uh, in in the remaining labs, you'll be
NOTE CONF
able to get help with the assignment in the labs.
So again, if you have problems with the assignment, just
NOTE CONF
drop in.
Talk to the demonstrator, and, uh, Hopefully they'll be able
NOTE CONF
to help.
As I said, there will be Python notebooks.
NOTE CONF
You work through it independently and there's two demonstrators on
hand to help.
NOTE CONF
The labs will also start in week two.
The first lab has already been issued, so go onto
NOTE CONF
notable and have a look at the lab.
If you have a moment.
NOTE CONF
As I said, you don't need to enrol unlike the
tutorials then assessment.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So there's multiple components to the assessment.
NOTE CONF
So there is one assignment which will appear towards the
end of the first half of the course.
NOTE CONF
It will be worth 20%.
It's a practical assignment.
NOTE CONF
It will also use Python notebooks.
So it's if you've been to the labs this will
NOTE CONF
be no surprise.
It's similar type of material.
NOTE CONF
There will also be quizzes.
Quizzes are short multiple choice uh, let's say tests.
NOTE CONF
Mini Many exams that happen every other week.
The first one is next week, and then every other
NOTE CONF
week.
There's one of these quizzes, so there's five in total.
NOTE CONF
Each of them are 4% of the mark.
And then finally there's an exam at the end of
NOTE CONF
the course in the exam period.
And that will be 60% of your of your mark.
NOTE CONF
Assignments are practical requiring programming.
I've already said this.
NOTE CONF
And if you're not quite sure and you think you
need extra practice, we will also issue this again.
NOTE CONF
Has actually been issued a practice assignment.
This is assignment zero.
NOTE CONF
It is not assessed but you can get feedback.
So have a look.
NOTE CONF
This is also notable.
And this is really for you to see.
NOTE CONF
You know what the difficulty level will be of the
actual assignment.
NOTE CONF
And whether you're comfortable with that or whether you want
to work to get to that level by the time
NOTE CONF
The the assignment one.
The actual assignment is issued.
NOTE CONF
You can submit this until week three and you will
get feedback on your submission.
NOTE CONF
You won't get any any marks.
It doesn't count towards your assessment.
NOTE CONF
It's just for practice the quizzes.
We will issue these on Friday and they're due on
NOTE CONF
Monday.
Uh, so they're really meant to be.
NOTE CONF
Really?
They're short.
NOTE CONF
It's around ten questions.
As I said, multiple choice.
NOTE CONF
So you will not spend more than, say, 30 minutes
on these questions.
NOTE CONF
They're really I mean, you get some credit for these,
but the quizzes are there so that you keep up
NOTE CONF
with the material rather than trying to leave everything to
the exam period and the dates when these will be
NOTE CONF
issued, the hand in deadlines, the marking deadlines, all these
things are in the course website.
NOTE CONF
And this brings me to the link here.
Don't go to the old website.
NOTE CONF
I'm not kidding, because if you Google the course, you
still get the old website which redirects to the new
NOTE CONF
website.
But this is a new website.
NOTE CONF
The old website.
If you see something very green, that's the old website.
NOTE CONF
And this website has all the all the dates.
And uh, here is the overview when the quizzes will
NOTE CONF
be released, when the assignments will be released and so
on.
NOTE CONF
So this is all here.
And.
NOTE CONF
Learn page.
So if you've taken informatics courses before then you will
NOTE CONF
know that we don't really like learn that much.
So informatics puts all the materials on open course.
NOTE CONF
So this is the open course site that you just
saw.
NOTE CONF
Um which is much more user friendly.
And in particular it's open.
NOTE CONF
AII the materials are available to anyone.
So we're using Open course for all the materials online.
NOTE CONF
Though we use learn for the assignments.
And also the lecture recordings are access to learn.
NOTE CONF
Oh, notable if you want to log into notable and
to Piazza actually then learn you need to do this
NOTE CONF
for loan announcements will also happen through loan.
But the course material, the slides and the tutorials and
NOTE CONF
so on are on the course website.
We are going to use Piazza, which probably you've used
NOTE CONF
before.
It's a discussion forum and it's mostly used for peer
NOTE CONF
support.
So if you have any questions about the content then
NOTE CONF
post them on Piazza and you guys can help each
other.
NOTE CONF
Obviously the lectures and Tas will also read your postings
and reply if appropriate.
NOTE CONF
The link to Piazza is online, you should just be
able to log in by following that link.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so, uh, before I give this brief preview, um,
any questions about the course at this point?
NOTE CONF
Anything I haven't covered?
No.
NOTE CONF
Everyone's happy.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
The.
Exam is the first time.
NOTE CONF
Um.
So.
NOTE CONF
Did you say it's the first year it's running?
No, no, this course has been running for a while.
NOTE CONF
The exam?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So it was running without exam last year and the
NOTE CONF
year before.
But there's all the exams, um, from previous.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, it's a good point.
This particular incarnation didn't have an exam last year.
NOTE CONF
We will provide a mock exam, I think.
And in particular, in addition will will provide guidance to
NOTE CONF
which of the old exams, which are, as I said,
more than a year or two years old, are still
NOTE CONF
current because the material has changed, but some things haven't
changed.
NOTE CONF
And so the the questions are still relevant.
Yeah, that's a good point.
NOTE CONF
Last year this course was coursework only for.
Neuroscience focus or coding focus.
NOTE CONF
The exam is focussed on the material covered in the
lectures, so there won't be any coding in the exam.
NOTE CONF
The coding is assessed through through the assignment.
That's the plan.
NOTE CONF
So it will be multiple choice questions and short answer
questions where you have to write text.
NOTE CONF
It won't be coding.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
How much time do you spend.
On the internet?
NOTE CONF
Um, so for each lecture, I'm setting between 1 or
2 obligatory readings and then a few optional readings.
NOTE CONF
I would only expect you to look at the obligatory
readings.
NOTE CONF
Um, maybe an hour per lecture.
Something like that.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Uh, no.
NOTE CONF
So the question was whether you're expected to take notes.
Um, you mean for the readings or for the lectures?
NOTE CONF
Uh, no.
So the the stuff that's examined will all be in
NOTE CONF
the lectures.
So the slides are sufficient.
NOTE CONF
But if you want more background, if you want additional
detail, if you want a more elaborate elaborate explanation.
NOTE CONF
That's what the readings are for, right?
So they're complimentary.
NOTE CONF
They don't provide additional examiner material, but they provide additional
background and complimentary stuff in addition to the stuff that's
NOTE CONF
covered in the lectures.
Other questions.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Very briefly.
NOTE CONF
And we're almost out of time.
Um, this is a preview to next to the next
NOTE CONF
lecture.
So everyone likes pizza.
NOTE CONF
Um, this is a study that people have done, uh,
where the setup is as follows.
NOTE CONF
So you go to your favourite pizza place, and they
have an offer of two small pizzas for the same
NOTE CONF
price as one large pizza.
So you can have two 12 inch pizzas for the
NOTE CONF
same price as one 18 inch pizza.
And, Um, what would you prefer?
NOTE CONF
And why don't I have a wool club question for
this?
NOTE CONF
No, sorry, I don't think I do.
Um.
NOTE CONF
So depending on how you formulate this question.
Um, there's there's a definite answer.
NOTE CONF
For example, if you formulate this in terms of the
area.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So you should go for more pizza in the sense
NOTE CONF
of more area of pizza.
And of course, we can work this out because we
NOTE CONF
know the diameter of the pizza.
And then we know that the area of the 12
NOTE CONF
inch pizzas is 226in, and the area of the single
large pizza is 154 inch squared.
NOTE CONF
So the large pizza is actually the better deal.
If all you care about is area.
NOTE CONF
And so what's going on?
Most people probably will have thought the two small pizzas
NOTE CONF
are are better, but what's going on?
Why is um, you know, is your pizza place trying
NOTE CONF
to deceive you or what's going on?
Why are you trying to sell you these two small
NOTE CONF
pizzas?
And in particular, why do people think that it's a
NOTE CONF
better deal most of the time.
And that's something we will talk about next time.
NOTE CONF
And, um, the answer behaviourally the answer is simply that
people are bad at estimating areas.
NOTE CONF
They're good at estimating lengths and linear quantities, but they're
bad at estimating areas.
NOTE CONF
Uh, but that's obviously just an observation and description.
This is not an explanation.
NOTE CONF
So why are they bad at estimating areas?
And in particular, would building a computational model be useful
NOTE CONF
in this case.
And that's one of the things we're going to talk
NOTE CONF
about on Thursday.
All right.
NOTE CONF
This is the reference if you want to find out
more.
NOTE CONF
It's actually also the reading for next time.
And there's a talk if you want to get all
NOTE CONF
the details.
That's it for today.
NOTE CONF
Thank you very much.
And.
NOTE CONF
I just.